# [nRF UART/RTT Logging](https://jimmywongiot.com/2020/02/24/print-log-flash-log-crash-log-on-nordic-nrf5-sdk/) 
[nRF Logger module](https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fsdk_nrf5_v16.0.0%2Flib_nrf_log.html) 
## [What is RTT Logging?](./0.RTT.md)
**RTT SEGGER's Real Time Transfer (RTT)** is a proprietary technology for bidirectional communication that supports J-Link devices and ARM-based microcontrollers. 
## <span style="color:red">The advantage of using RTT is that it is very **efficient**; logging only **updates a buffer in RAM**.</span> 
* RTT does not rely on any other peripherals than the **J-Link debugging interface, SWD**.

## [What is UART Logging?](./0.UART.md)
UART used to be the **default way** of outputting information in most SDK examples. It is **quick and power-efficient**, but it **requires dedicated use of the UART peripheral** for logging.  

**Raw UART:**
Unlike UART, raw UART uses **blocking calls**. Therefore, it works in all situations, while **regular UART stops working if interrupts are turned off** (on purpose or because of a failure). Raw UART is **slower and less power-efficient** than regular UART.

The UART/RTT logging library provides functions to output logging information over **[SEGGER's Real Time Transfer (RTT)](./0.RTT.md), [UART, or raw UART](./0.UART.md)**. The library can be used both to output messages and to read input.

## <span style="color:red">You can decide if you want to output the logging information over RTT, UART, or raw UART, or if you do not want to output it at all.</span>

* To enable **logging over RTT**, define **NRF_LOG_USES_RTT=1** in the project. 
* To enable **logging over UART**, define NRF_LOG_USES_UART=1. 
* To enable logging over raw UART, define NRF_LOG_USES_RAW_UART=1. 
* You can **specify only one** of these defines, not several at the same time. 
* To **disable logging, do not specify either one**.
* If you choose to not output any information, all logging macros can be left in the code without any cost;they will just be ignored. 
